It is a melancholy object to those, who walk through this great town,or travel in the country, when they see the streets, the roads, andcabbin-doors crowded with beggars of the female sex, followed by three,four, or six children, all in rags, and importuning every passenger foran alms. These mothers, instead of being able to work for their honestlivelihood, are forced to employ all their time in stroling to begsustenance for their helpless infants who, as they grow up, either turnthieves for want of work, or leave their dear native country, to fightfor the Pretender in Spain, or sell themselves to the Barbadoes.

I think it is agreed by all parties, that this prodigious number ofchildren in the arms, or on the backs, or at the heels of theirmothers, and frequently of their fathers, is in the present deplorablestate of the kingdom, a very great additional grievance; and thereforewhoever could find out a fair, cheap and easy method of making thesechildren sound and useful members of the commonwealth, would deserve sowell of the publick, as to have his statue set up for a preserver ofthe nation.

But my intention is very far from being confined to provide only forthe children of professed beggars: it is of a much greater extent, andshall take in the whole number of infants at a certain age, who areborn of parents in effect as little able to support them, as those whodemand our charity in the streets.

As to my own part, having turned my thoughts for many years upon thisimportant subject, and maturely weighed the several schemes of ourprojectors, I have always found them grossly mistaken in theircomputation. It is true, a child just dropt from its dam, may besupported by her milk, for a solar year, with little other nourishment:at most not above the value of two shillings, which the mother maycertainly get, or the value in scraps, by her lawful occupation ofbegging; and it is exactly at one year old that I propose to providefor them in such a manner, as, instead of being a charge upon theirparents, or the parish, or wanting food and raiment for the rest oftheir lives, they shall, on the contrary, contribute to the feeding,and partly to the clothing of many thousands.

There is likewise another great advantage in my scheme, that it willprevent those voluntary abortions, and that horrid practice of womenmurdering their bastard children, alas! too frequent among us,sacrificing the poor innocent babes, I doubt, more to avoid the expencethan the shame, which would move tears and pity in the most savage andinhuman breast.

The number of souls in this kingdom being usually reckoned one millionand a half, of these I calculate there may be about two hundredthousand couple, whose wives are breeders; from which number I subtractthirty thousand couple, who are able to maintain their own children,(although I apprehend there cannot be so many under the presentdistresses of the kingdom) but this being granted, there will remain ahundred and seventy thousand breeders. I again subtract fifty thousand,for those women who miscarry, or whose children die by accident ordisease within the year. There only remain a hundred and twentythousand children of poor parents annually born. The question thereforeis, How this number shall be reared and provided for? which, as I havealready said, under the present situation of affairs, is utterlyimpossible by all the methods hitherto proposed. For we can neitheremploy them in handicraft or agriculture; they neither build houses, (Imean in the country) nor cultivate land: they can very seldom pick up alivelihood by stealing till they arrive at six years old; except wherethey are of towardly parts, although I confess they learn the rudimentsmuch earlier; during which time they can however be properly lookedupon only as probationers; as I have been informed by a principalgentleman in the county of Cavan, who protested to me, that he neverknew above one or two instances under the age of six, even in a part ofthe kingdom so renowned for the quickest proficiency in that art.

I am assured by our merchants, that a boy or a girl, before twelveyears old, is no saleable commodity, and even when they come to thisage, they will not yield above three pounds, or three pounds and half acrown at most, on the exchange; which cannot turn to account either tothe parents or kingdom, the charge of nutriments and rags having beenat least four times that value.

I shall now therefore humbly propose my own thoughts, which I hope willnot be liable to the least objection.

I have been assured by a very knowing American of my acquaintance inLondon, that a young healthy child well nursed, is, at a year old, amost delicious nourishing and wholesome food, whether stewed, roasted,baked, or boiled; and I make no doubt that it will equally serve in africasee, or a ragoust.

I do therefore humbly offer it to publick consideration, that of thehundred and twenty thousand children, already computed, twenty thousandmay be reserved for breed, whereof only one fourth part to be males;which is more than we allow to sheep, black cattle, or swine, and myreason is, that these children are seldom the fruits of marriage, acircumstance not much regarded by our savages, therefore, one male willbe sufficient to serve four females. That the remaining hundredthousand may, at a year old, be offered in sale to the persons ofquality and fortune, through the kingdom, always advising the mother tolet them suck plentifully in the last month, so as to render themplump, and fat for a good table. A child will make two dishes at anentertainment for friends, and when the family dines alone, the fore orhind quarter will make a reasonable dish, and seasoned with a littlepepper or salt, will be very good boiled on the fourth day, especiallyin winter.

I have reckoned upon a medium, that a child just born will weigh 12pounds, and in a solar year, if tolerably nursed, encreaseth to 28pounds.

I grant this food will be somewhat dear, and therefore very proper forlandlords, who, as they have already devoured most of the parents, seemto have the best title to the children.

Infant’s flesh will be in season throughout the year, but moreplentiful in March, and a little before and after; for we are told by agrave author, an eminent French physician, that fish being a prolifickdyet, there are more children born in Roman Catholick countries aboutnine months after Lent, than at any other season; therefore, reckoninga year after Lent, the markets will be more glutted than usual, becausethe number of Popish infants, is at least three to one in this kingdom,and therefore it will have one other collateral advantage, by lesseningthe number of Papists among us.

I have already computed the charge of nursing a beggar’s child (inwhich list I reckon all cottagers, labourers, and four-fifths of thefarmers) to be about two shillings per annum, rags included; and Ibelieve no gentleman would repine to give ten shillings for the carcassof a good fat child, which, as I have said, will make four dishes ofexcellent nutritive meat, when he hath only some particular friend, orhis own family to dine with him. Thus the squire will learn to be agood landlord, and grow popular among his tenants, the mother will haveeight shillings neat profit, and be fit for work till she producesanother child.

Those who are more thrifty (as I must confess the times require) mayflay the carcass; the skin of which, artificially dressed, will makeadmirable gloves for ladies, and summer boots for fine gentlemen.

As to our City of Dublin, shambles may be appointed for this purpose,in the most convenient parts of it, and butchers we may be assured willnot be wanting; although I rather recommend buying the children alive,and dressing them hot from the knife, as we do roasting pigs.

A very worthy person, a true lover of his country, and whose virtues Ihighly esteem, was lately pleased in discoursing on this matter, tooffer a refinement upon my scheme. He said, that many gentlemen of thiskingdom, having of late destroyed their deer, he conceived that thewant of venison might be well supplied by the bodies of young lads andmaidens, not exceeding fourteen years of age, nor under twelve; sogreat a number of both sexes in every county being now ready to starvefor want of work and service: and these to be disposed of by theirparents if alive, or otherwise by their nearest relations. But with duedeference to so excellent a friend, and so deserving a patriot, Icannot be altogether in his sentiments; for as to the males, myAmerican acquaintance assured me from frequent experience, that theirflesh was generally tough and lean, like that of our schoolboys, bycontinual exercise, and their taste disagreeable, and to fatten themwould not answer the charge. Then as to the females, it would, I think,with humble submission, be a loss to the publick, because they soonwould become breeders themselves: and besides, it is not improbablethat some scrupulous people might be apt to censure such a practice,(although indeed very unjustly) as a little bordering upon cruelty,which, I confess, hath always been with me the strongest objectionagainst any project, how well soever intended.

But in order to justify my friend, he confessed, that this expedientwas put into his head by the famous Psalmanaazor, a native of theisland Formosa, who came from thence to London, above twenty years ago,and in conversation told my friend, that in his country, when any youngperson happened to be put to death, the executioner sold the carcass topersons of quality, as a prime dainty; and that, in his time, the bodyof a plump girl of fifteen, who was crucified for an attempt to poisonthe Emperor, was sold to his imperial majesty’s prime minister ofstate, and other great mandarins of the court in joints from thegibbet, at four hundred crowns. Neither indeed can I deny, that if thesame use were made of several plump young girls in this town, whowithout one single groat to their fortunes, cannot stir abroad withouta chair, and appear at a playhouse and assemblies in foreign finerieswhich they never will pay for, the kingdom would not be the worse.

Some persons of a desponding spirit are in great concern about thatvast number of poor people, who are aged, diseased, or maimed; and Ihave been desired to employ my thoughts what course may be taken, toease the nation of so grievous an incumbrance. But I am not in theleast pain upon that matter, because it is very well known, that theyare every day dying, and rotting, by cold and famine, and filth, andvermin, as fast as can be reasonably expected. And as to the younglabourers, they are now in almost as hopeful a condition. They cannotget work, and consequently pine away from want of nourishment, to adegree, that if at any time they are accidentally hired to commonlabour, they have not strength to perform it, and thus the country andthemselves are happily delivered from the evils to come.

I have too long digressed, and therefore shall return to my subject. Ithink the advantages by the proposal which I have made are obvious andmany, as well as of the highest importance.

For first, as I have already observed, it would greatly lessen thenumber of Papists, with whom we are yearly overrun, being the principalbreeders of the nation, as well as our most dangerous enemies, and whostay at home on purpose with a design to deliver the kingdom to thePretender, hoping to take their advantage by the absence of so manygood Protestants, who have chosen rather to leave their country, thanstay at home and pay tithes against their conscience to an episcopalcurate.

Secondly, The poorer tenants will have something valuable of their own,which by law may be made liable to a distress, and help to pay theirlandlord’s rent, their corn and cattle being already seized, and moneya thing unknown.

Thirdly, Whereas the maintainance of a hundred thousand children, fromtwo years old, and upwards, cannot be computed at less than tenshillings a piece per annum, the nation’s stock will be therebyencreased fifty thousand pounds per annum, besides the profit of a newdish, introduced to the tables of all gentlemen of fortune in thekingdom, who have any refinement in taste. And the money will circulateamong our selves, the goods being entirely of our own growth andmanufacture.

Fourthly, The constant breeders, besides the gain of eight shillingssterling per annum by the sale of their children, will be rid of thecharge of maintaining them after the first year.

Fifthly, This food would likewise bring great custom to taverns, wherethe vintners will certainly be so prudent as to procure the bestreceipts for dressing it to perfection; and consequently have theirhouses frequented by all the fine gentlemen, who justly valuethemselves upon their knowledge in good eating; and a skilful cook, whounderstands how to oblige his guests, will contrive to make it asexpensive as they please.

Sixthly, This would be a great inducement to marriage, which all wisenations have either encouraged by rewards, or enforced by laws andpenalties. It would encrease the care and tenderness of mothers towardstheir children, when they were sure of a settlement for life to thepoor babes, provided in some sort by the publick, to their annualprofit instead of expence. We should soon see an honest emulation amongthe married women, which of them could bring the fattest child to themarket. Men would become as fond of their wives, during the time oftheir pregnancy, as they are now of their mares in foal, their cows incalf, or sows when they are ready to farrow; nor offer to beat or kickthem (as is too frequent a practice) for fear of a miscarriage.

Many other advantages might be enumerated. For instance, the additionof some thousand carcasses in our exportation of barrel’d beef: thepropagation of swine’s flesh, and improvement in the art of making goodbacon, so much wanted among us by the great destruction of pigs, toofrequent at our tables; which are no way comparable in taste ormagnificence to a well grown, fat yearling child, which roasted wholewill make a considerable figure at a Lord Mayor’s feast, or any otherpublick entertainment. But this, and many others, I omit, beingstudious of brevity.

Supposing that one thousand families in this city, would be constantcustomers for infants flesh, besides others who might have it at merrymeetings, particularly at weddings and christenings, I compute thatDublin would take off annually about twenty thousand carcasses; and therest of the kingdom (where probably they will be sold somewhat cheaper)the remaining eighty thousand.

I can think of no one objection, that will possibly be raised againstthis proposal, unless it should be urged, that the number of peoplewill be thereby much lessened in the kingdom. This I freely own, andwas indeed one principal design in offering it to the world. I desirethe reader will observe, that I calculate my remedy for this oneindividual Kingdom of Ireland, and for no other that ever was, is, or,I think, ever can be upon Earth. Therefore let no man talk to me ofother expedients: Of taxing our absentees at five shillings a pound: Ofusing neither clothes, nor houshold furniture, except what is of ourown growth and manufacture: Of utterly rejecting the materials andinstruments that promote foreign luxury: Of curing the expensiveness ofpride, vanity, idleness, and gaming in our women: Of introducing a veinof parsimony, prudence and temperance: Of learning to love our country,wherein we differ even from Laplanders, and the inhabitants ofTopinamboo: Of quitting our animosities and factions, nor acting anylonger like the Jews, who were murdering one another at the very momenttheir city was taken: Of being a little cautious not to sell ourcountry and consciences for nothing: Of teaching landlords to have atleast one degree of mercy towards their tenants. Lastly, of putting aspirit of honesty, industry, and skill into our shopkeepers, who, if aresolution could now be taken to buy only our native goods, wouldimmediately unite to cheat and exact upon us in the price, the measure,and the goodness, nor could ever yet be brought to make one fairproposal of just dealing, though often and earnestly invited to it.

Therefore I repeat, let no man talk to me of these and the likeexpedients, till he hath at least some glympse of hope, that there willever be some hearty and sincere attempt to put them into practice.

But, as to myself, having been wearied out for many years with offeringvain, idle, visionary thoughts, and at length utterly despairing ofsuccess, I fortunately fell upon this proposal, which, as it is whollynew, so it hath something solid and real, of no expence and littletrouble, full in our own power, and whereby we can incur no danger indisobliging England. For this kind of commodity will not bearexportation, and flesh being of too tender a consistence, to admit along continuance in salt, although perhaps I could name a country,which would be glad to eat up our whole nation without it.

After all, I am not so violently bent upon my own opinion, as to rejectany offer, proposed by wise men, which shall be found equally innocent,cheap, easy, and effectual. But before something of that kind shall beadvanced in contradiction to my scheme, and offering a better, I desirethe author or authors will be pleased maturely to consider two points.First, As things now stand, how they will be able to find food andraiment for a hundred thousand useless mouths and backs. And secondly,There being a round million of creatures in humane figure throughoutthis kingdom, whose whole subsistence put into a common stock, wouldleave them in debt two million of pounds sterling, adding those who arebeggars by profession, to the bulk of farmers, cottagers and labourers,with their wives and children, who are beggars in effect; I desirethose politicians who dislike my overture, and may perhaps be so boldto attempt an answer, that they will first ask the parents of thesemortals, whether they would not at this day think it a great happinessto have been sold for food at a year old, in the manner I prescribe,and thereby have avoided such a perpetual scene of misfortunes, as theyhave since gone through, by the oppression of landlords, theimpossibility of paying rent without money or trade, the want of commonsustenance, with neither house nor clothes to cover them from theinclemencies of the weather, and the most inevitable prospect ofintailing the like, or greater miseries, upon their breed for ever.

I profess in the sincerity of my heart, that I have not the leastpersonal interest in endeavouring to promote this necessary work,having no other motive than the publick good of my country, byadvancing our trade, providing for infants, relieving the poor, andgiving some pleasure to the rich. I have no children, by which I canpropose to get a single penny; the youngest being nine years old, andmy wife past child-bearing.